Title:
Low-density locality-sensitive hashing boosts metagenomic binning
Abstract: Metagenomic binning is an essential task in analyzing metagenomic sequence
datasets. To analyze structure or function of microbial communities from
environmental samples, metagenomic sequence fragments are assigned to their
taxonomic origins. Although sequence alignment algorithms can readily be used
and usually provide high-resolution alignments and accurate binning results,
the computational cost of such alignment-based methods becomes prohibitive as
metagenomic datasets continue to grow. Alternative compositional-based methods,
which exploit sequence composition by profiling local short k-mers in
fragments, are often faster but less accurate than alignment-based methods.
Inspired by the success of linear error correcting codes in noisy channel
communication, we introduce Opal, a fast and accurate novel compositional-based
binning method. It incorporates ideas from Gallager's low-density parity-check
code to design a family of compact and discriminative locality-sensitive
hashing functions that encode long-range compositional dependencies in long
fragments. By incorporating the Gallager LSH functions as features in a simple
linear SVM, Opal provides fast, accurate and robust binning for datasets
consisting of a large number of species, even with mutations and sequencing
errors. Opal not only performs up to two orders of magnitude faster than BWA,
an alignment-based binning method, but also achieves improved binning accuracy
and robustness to sequencing errors. Opal also outperforms models built on
traditional k-mer profiles in terms of robustness and accuracy. Finally, we
demonstrate that we can effectively use Opal in the "coarse search" stage of a
compressive genomics pipeline to identify a much smaller candidate set of
taxonomic origins for a subsequent alignment-based method to analyze, thus
providing metagenomic binning with high scalability, high accuracy and high
resolution.
