Title:
The KPP boundary layer scheme: revisiting its formulation and  benchmarking one-dimensional ocean simulations relative to LES
Abstract: We evaluate the Community ocean Vertical Mixing (CVMix) project version of
the K-profile parameterization (KPP). For this purpose, one-dimensional KPP
simulations are compared across a suite of oceanographically relevant regimes
against large eddy simulations (LES). The LES is forced with horizontally
uniform boundary fluxes and has horizontally uniform initial conditions,
allowing its horizontal average to be compared to one-dimensional KPP tests. We
find the standard configuration of KPP consistent with LES results across many
simulations, supporting the physical basis of KPP. We propose some adaptations
of KPP for improved applicability. First, KPP requires that interior
diffusivities and gradients be matched to KPP predicted values. We find that
difficulties in representation of derivatives under rapidly changing
diffusivities near the base of the ocean surface boundary layer (OSBL) can lead
to loss of simulation fidelity. We propose two solutions: (1) require linear
interpolation to match interior diffusivities and gradients and (2) a
computationally simpler alternative where the KPP diffusivity is set to zero at
the OSBL base and interior mixing schemes are extended to the surface. Yet the
latter approach is sensitive to implementation details and we suggest a number
of solutions to prevent emergence of numerical high frequency noise. Further,
the chosen time stepping scheme can also impact model biases associated with
the non-local tracer flux parameterization. While we propose solutions to
mitigate the artificial near-surface stratification, our results show that the
KPP parameterized non-local tracer flux is inconsistent with LES results in one
case due to the assumption that it solely redistributes the surface tracer
flux. In general, our reevaluation of KPP has led to a series of improved
recommendations for use of KPP within ocean circulation models.
